---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-29T21:56:19.898Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-29T21:56:19.609Z'
title: Detection of neuropathogenic strains of Equid Herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) associated with abortions in Germany.
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2015-12-04-0ed55027-8850-4584-b898-bbcc3f71aa64.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 0ed55027-8850-4584-b898-bbcc3f71aa64/index.html
_type: Article

---
Veröffentlichungen

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Fritsche+EHV-1+2011

Virological and molecular biological characterization of Equid Herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) isolates from Germany. Fritsche, Ann-Kathrin. http://www.diss.fu-berlin.de/diss/receive/FUDISS\_thesis\_000000100427

Zusammenfassung/Summary: In this study, the non-neuropathogenic genotype (N752/A2254) was detected in 88.1% (59/67) of the EHV-1 abortion isolates. The neuropathogenic genotype (D752/G2254) was detected in 11.9% (8/67).

The infection with the neuropathogenic EHV-1 strain did not necessarily result in neurological signs. Only two of the mares (2/8) with the neuropathogenic genotype showed neurological signs prior to abortion.

Another mutation at nt position 2258 was found, an amino acid change from Y to S753 was recognized in EHV-1 reference strain Ab4, RacH and abortion T952 (single abortion case). The amino acid changes at position 752 and 753 possibly correspond with the outcome of the neuropathogenic potential. Further investigations are needed to clarify if there is a correlation. In two abortion isolates (A(E) 271-3, A 258) from single abortion cases from the year 2004 the nucleotide guanine (G2269) was exchanged to adenine (A2269), an amino acid change from glutamic acid to lysine resulted (E 757 to K 757).

In six archived wild equid isolates and in two cattle isolates the neuropathogenic genotype G2254 was found. In three wild equid ORF 30 amplicons the sequencing revealed an additional nucleotide change from G to A at position 2262, no amino acid exchange resulted. In this study, a clinical healthy stallion was found to have the neuropathogenic genotype in semen. Further studies should be performed to examine if EHV-1 was excreted via semen and if the infectivity remained.

The detection of virus in PBMC via ORF 30 nested PCR succeeded in this study only twice and it is questionable whether this low detection rate depends on the stage of infection (active or latent) or the detection method.

The ORF 30 nested PCR was found to be a fast and safe method to differentiate neuropathogenic from non-neuropathogenic EHV-1 strains. However, the typing of the strains should not influence the stud farm management in the case of outbreak, as both strains - neuropathogenic and non-neuropathogenic - have the potential to cause disease.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Fritsche+Borchers

[Vet Microbiol.][0]

2011 Jan 10;147(1-2):176-80\. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2010.06.014\. Epub 2010 Jun 22\.

# Detection of neuropathogenic strains of Equid Herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) associated with abortions in Germany.

# [Fritsche, AK1,Borchers, ][1]K.

### [Author information][2]1Institute of Virology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Free University of Berlin, Philippstr. 13, 10115 Berlin, Germany.

### Abstract

A single nucleotide polymorphism within EHV-1 gene ORF 30, which encodes for the viral DNA polymerase, allows the differentiation of the neuropathogenic (G2254) from non-neuropathogenic genotype (A2254). The aim of our study was to investigate the distribution of the neuropathogenic and non-neuropathogenic genotype of EHV-1 isolates associated with abortions in Germany. To determine the nucleotide sequence at the polymorphic site the amplification product of ORF 30 gene specific nested PCR was digested with restriction enzyme SalI and sequenced. Thirty-two EHV-1 isolates from six abortion outbreaks and 34 archived isolates from individual cases were obtained between 1987 and 2009 from stud farms in different regions of Germany. 89.4% (59/66) of the EHV-1 abortion isolates was of non-neuropathogenic genotype (N752/A2254) and 10.6% (7/66) contained the neuropathogenic marker (D752/G2254). Two out of seven EHV-1 abortion isolates with the mutation (G2254) came from the same outbreak and were derived from mares with neurological signs. Interestingly, the semen of a stallion from the same stud was tested positive for the neuropathogenic genotype (G2254) too. The other five EHV-1 strains came from individual abortion cases with no neurological signs. In addition to the A2254 to G2254 substitution, two EHV-1 reference strains (Ab4 and RacH) and one field isolate from an individual abortion case showed an exchange of adenine to cytosine at position 2258\. In sum, we confirmed coherence between the occurrence of abortions and the non-neuropathogenic EHV-1 (A2254), but 10.6% of the abortion strains carried the mutation (G2254). The relevance of this finding as well as the role of the additional mutation and of stallions as carriers should be further investigated.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved

[0]: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Fritsche+Borchers "Veterinary microbiology."
[1]: null
[2]: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Fritsche+Borchers "Open/close author information list"